And in production to 3 John, John wrote his third letter in or near Ephesus about 98 CE.
John addressed his third letter to a beloved Gaeus, a common Roman name at the time.
3 John has 14 verses.
Gaeus had a fine reputation for enduring in the truth and for welcoming brothers who were strangers to him.
And the Apostle John commends him for his hospitable spirit.
Diatrophes attitude contrast sharply with that of Gaeus.
Diatrophes is disrespectful of apostolic authority and what's the first place among the brothers.
Diatrophes refuses to welcome visiting brothers.
He even tries to hinder and expel from the congregation those who show hospitality.
However, Demetrius, a Christian and dear friend of John, is spoken of favorably.
Demetrius may have been the one who delivered John's third letter.
Did you know?
At 3 John 6, Gaeus is advised to send the traveling brothers on their way in a manner worthy of God.
This would mean carefully supplying the brothers with what they need for their trip.
Gaeus evidently did this.
At the end of his second and third letters, John explains that his letters are short because he hopes to see his brothers soon and speak with them face to face.
As you read 3 John, note how it stresses the importance of Christian hospitality.
See how it contrasts the attitude of proud Diatrophes with that of beloved Gaeus.
And observe how the depth of John's love is expressed for his fellow kingdom heirs.